# Tracker-Notebook

The NotebookTracker program is a program written within a singular class. Its overall function is to read in times that staff entered or exited a lab, and determine who might possibly have picked up another lab member’s notebook. It’s code is split into five main methods known as:  timesCross, timesCrossLate, getCrossingStaff, getCrossingStaff_file and main.

At the start of the program, a public Scanner is created which will be able to be used throughout the rest of the class.  

The timesCross method takes four integer inputs (start_p1, end_p1, start_p2, end_p2) which are used to determine whether or not two time periods a staff member has entered the lab intersect. First, the boolean variable is instantiated as false. After this, an if statement is used to compare the time values via logical operators and set overlap to true if the times overlap. If the times do not overlap, the variable remains as false. FInally, the variable overlap is returned to display whether or not the two time periods do indeed overlap. I have chosen variable names such as ‘start_p1’ or ‘overlap’ to ensure it is clear what they are used for, or what they represent, in this case the start period 1 or if the time periods overlap.

The timesCrossLate method is an extension of the timesCross method as it allows for inputs that exceed midnight, increasing the functionality of the method. First, an if statement is used to compare the start and end values of time period one. If the start period is greater than the end, the start and end period are adjusted accordingly so that they will produce the correct output when entered into the timesCross method. This is also repeated for the second time period. Subsequent to this, the result of the timesCross method being called with the adjusted values is outputted. I have decided to use the same variable names as I used in timesCross because it provides clarity and consistency.

The getCrossingStaff method provides the user the ability to enter staff details and determine who may possibly be in possession of the notebook. First, the variable ‘num_staff_notebook’ is initialised to be used later on as well as a Scanner being used to get the number of staff and store it in a variable. A for loop is implemented which repeats between the range of 0 and the number of staff. Each iteration of this loop gathers data about the staff,such as the name as well as the entry and exit time, using a Scanner. Subsequent to this, an if statement is used to check if the staff member in this iteration has any times that may have crossed using the timesCross method. If the value true is returned, the staff member's name is printed, suggesting that they might have the notebook. In addition, the num_staff_notebook variable is incremented by 1 to show that another member of staff may have the notebook. If the value is false, the staff’s name is displayed to not have the notebook and num_stuff_notebook is not incremented. FInally the num_staff_notebook value is returned from the function to be used within the main method.

The main method contains the core program logic and take two inputs: String[] and args . First variables are initialised, then information is gathered about when the notebook was last seen using the Scanner. After this, a for loop is implemented which iterates in the range(0,length of list args). The length of the list args is the same as the length of the number of inputted files. In one iteration of the loop, a try and catch statement is used to open the file. Within the try statement is a while loop that iterates over each line and saves individual staff information using variables. Each staff member is checked using an if statement that uses the method timesCross to check if a staff member has the notebook or not. If they do, num_suspected_staff is incremented by 1, to be used at a later area in the program. The catch statement prints an error message to let the user know that their file is not valid. Lastly, num_suspected_staff is checked. If it is 0, the number of staff who crossed is calculated using the getCrossingStaff method and the user inputs the data manually. The result is then printed. If num_suspected_staff is not 0, the result is printed.
